=head1 NAME

p2v-release-notes - virt-p2v Release Notes

=begin comment

UPDATED TO 9b009aa4a3898648fe68301d1c5ed774a0bf2e38

=end comment

=begin comment

<script>
document.body.style.backgroundImage = "url('draft.png')";
document.body.style.backgroundRepeat = "no-repeat";
</script>

=end comment

=head1 RELEASE NOTES FOR VIRT-P2V 1.42.0

These release notes only cover the differences from the previous
version.  For detailed changelogs, please see the git repository.

=over 4

=item

The C<rhv-upload> output mode of virt-v2v is not listed as output
driver, as virt-p2v does not provide all the GUI elements to properly
use it (Pino Toscano).

=item

Virt-v2v is checked as requirement for the functional tests, in
addition to guestfish, and virt-customize (Pino Toscano).

=back

=for comment ################################################################

=head1 RELEASE NOTES FOR VIRT-P2V 1.41.0

This is the first standalone release of virt-p2v, split from the
libguestfs sources.

There are no functionality changes compared to virt-p2v shipped as
part of libguestfs 1.40.

=head1 RELEASE NOTES FOR HISTORICAL VERSIONS OF VIRT-P2V

Before 1.41.0 virt-p2v was released as part of libguestfs.  Therefore,
release notes for these older versions are found as part of the
L<release notes of libguestfs|guestfs-release-notes(1)>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<guestfs-release-notes(1)>,
L<http://libguestfs.org/>

=head1 AUTHOR

Richard W.M. Jones

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2019 Red Hat Inc.
